Hi this is Alia and welcome back to cooking with Alia to
show you the mix of the flavors of Morocco
Today, we're going to an amazing, delicious dish
of Salmon and sweet potatoes Moroccan style
First, we're going to use a Tagine
which is a Morrocan clay pot used for slow cooking
Second, we're going to use an amazing spice blend called Ras-El-Hanout
Ras-El-Hanout literally means the head of the shop and it's very famous in Morocco
Every spice shop in Morocco usually have their own blend
and sometimes it has more than 30 spices in it
This show is so simple, delicious and out of this world
If you need the ingredients and the written recipe, there
are below the video in the "About" section
This is the dish that you will remember. Let's Start!!!
First, we are going to prepare the marinade.
In a large bowl, add freshly squeezed lemon juice, olive oil, honey
and Ras-El-Hanout – a staple Moroccan spice blend!
Combine together.
Now add a large pinch of saffron threads, that you
crush between your fingers, salt, and pepper.
Add a little bit of water and mix well.
Our marinade is ready!
Look at these beautiful Salmon pieces.
Place the fillets in the marinade, cover the bowl with a plastic wrap
and marinate the salmon in the fridge for at least one hour.
Once you are ready to cook the Salmon,
let’s prepare the rest of the ingredients.
Peel, cut, and thinly slice the onion.
Peel the sweet potatoes and thinly slice them as well.
I am using a tagine, the famous Moroccan
clay pot used for slow cooking.
If you don’t have one, you can use a regular cooking pot.
Drizzle some olive oil in the bottom part of the tagine,
add the onions, a pinch of salt, and
a few branches of fresh cilantro.
Place the tagine on low heat, cover
and let cook for around 5 minutes or until
the onion slices start sweating a bit.
Notice that I am using a plain clay tagine
if yours is decorated and colorful, then it’s not for cooking just for presentation!
Once the onion slices start sweating, it’s time to add the sweet potatoes.
Remove the Salmon pieces from the marinade and reserve.
Dip the sweet potato slices into the marinade
before placing them in the tagine.
Then pour the marinade over the potatoes and onion.
Cover the tagine and continue cooking for around 30 minutes on low heat
until the potatoes start becoming soft.
Now add the salmon pieces on top of the potato
slices and a final touch, add the raisins around.
Cover your tagine and let cook for 45
minutes to 1 hour on low heat.
Cooking in a tagine is all about slow cooking, and don’t worry,
the salmon will not be overcooked it will be just perfect!
And that’s the magic of a tagine pot…
However, remember, it has to cook on low heat; otherwise,
you will burn the bottom layer of the ingredients.
From time to time, check on the ingredients
tile the tagine and pour some of the
sauce on top of the salmon and potatoes
But don't move the ingredients. Keep them as they are.
And that’s it, don’t move anything, don’t add anything…
just wait until the potatoes are cooked and become soft… then serve hot!
Look at this deliciously cooked to perfection salmon with
sweet potato, raisins, in a honey spiced sauce…
all you need is some crusty bread!
Bon appetite!!!